## Process for Onboarding Potential Stakeholders

In order to try and keep the work of the Site Scanning program grounded, we've evolved a process for how new scans are added and future work is prioritized.  The goal is to make sure that the program is generating data that real stakeholders actually need.  With a [long list](https://github.com/18F/site-scanning-documentation/blob/main/pages/candidate-scans.md) of _ideas_ for further scans, we hope that the below process keeps us focused and ensures that we are good stewards of our stakeholders' time. 

* [Hypothesis](#a-hypothesis)
* [Research](#b-research)
* [Prototype](#c-build-a-minimum-viable-product-to-prototype)
* [Feedback](#d-get-feedback)
* [Iterate](#e-iterate)
* [Feedback](#f-get-feedback)
* [User Acceptance](#g-user-acceptance)
* [Sustain](#h-ensure-long-term-sustainability)

#### A) Hypothesis

Someone suggests how a new scan field could be useful to a potential stakeholder.  We keep a [list of every idea](https://github.com/18F/site-scanning-documentation/blob/main/pages/candidate-scans.md) that we get, as well as any notes on who might need that data.  

#### B) Research 

The most important initial questions we ask are:
* Exactly what is being scanned for
* Who is the specific stakeholder that might want to use this
* How useful might the stakeholder find this (and how often)
* What are some methods for scanning this and how hard or easy do we think it would be

If we identify a likely stakeholder that there's some reason to think would gain real value from the new data fields and if the possible value may warrant the anticipated effort and difficulty of creating the new scan, then we'll look to proceed to the next step.  

#### C) Build a minimum viable product to prototype

The next step is then actually engineering in the production system a first pass at scanning for this data. The focus is on the quickest path to a partial or full implementation, so that we can get the resulting data in front of the potential stakeholder for feedback as soon as possible since our initial understanding of the need is still mostly hypothesis.  

#### D) Get feedback 

We anticipate that when we first show it to the potential stakeholder, the prototype scan data will be a true minimum viable product and that the initial feedback will include some obviously needed improvements.  This first round of feedback though should allow us to map out what further work would be needed to go from a rough prototype to something more closely resembling the original vision.  End the feedback session with clear agreement for the exact changes we will next work on.   
Another possibility is that the stakeholder realizes that the original hypothesis did not pan out and that they don't have a regular, direct need for the data generated by this scan.  As part of a 'fail fast' mindset, it's okay for these first four steps to lead to this end.  On the other hand, the hope is that by this phase, we can affirm if the new scan data does hold real value for the stakeholder and thus that the remaining work in the next steps are warranted.   

#### E) Iterate

Based on the feedback received, work on the prototype that attempts to address all of the changes requested.  

#### F) Get feedback 

After making the latest round of changes, hold another feedback session with the user to show them the results and to solicit what further changes they would need.  

#### G) User acceptance 

After however many rounds of feedback and iteration are useful, the intention is to arrive at a point where the stakeholder affirms that the current scan data meets their original need and that they don't have any further changes to request specific to this scan.  The above steps may have helped to clarify the hypothesis and may lead to new ideas for other similar but different candidate scans, but the goal should be to try and put those onto fresh work tracks as other hypotheses.   

#### H) Ensure long-term sustainability

Once the stakeholder has confirmed that the above work is generating useful data for them and that they don't have any immediate change requests, the last step is to ensure the sustainability and scalability of these new scans.  Our program's aim is to deliver up-to-date, consistently reliable data that the stakeholder and other users can rely on and build upon.  We may need to devote further sprints to shoring up the work that's been done to ensure that we meet that expectation.  
